---

copyright:
  years: 2025
lastupdated: "2025-07-30"

keywords: sap hana, configuration, protection policy, protection group, future, resume, cancel, delete, runs

subcollection: backup-recovery

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Manage the SAP HANA backup configuration
{: #manage_the_sap_hana_backup_configuration}

A backup configuration includes a Protection Group and a Protection Policy. You can modify the existing Protection Group and the Protection Policy based on your requirement.

## Attach new protection policy to the protection group
{: #attach_new_protection_policy_to_the_protection_group}

A Protection Policy can be attached to multiple Protection Groups, and any changes in the policy settings impacts all the Protection Groups that are associated with the Protection Policy. You can create and attach a new Protection Policy with the required policy settings to your Protection Group. The new policy is applied to the Protection Group from the next scheduled protection run.

To attach a new Protection Policy to the Protection Group:

1. Navigate to **Data Protection > Protection**.
2. On the **Protection** page, select the Protection Group that you had created for SAP HANA.
3. Click the actions menu next to the Protection Group and select **Edit**.
4. On the **Edit Protection** page, click in the **Objects** section.
5. In the **Policy** drop-down list, select the new Protection Policy for the Protection Group.
6. Click **Save**.

## Pause future protection runs
{: #pause_future_protection_runs}

You can pause future protection runs of the Protection Group from executing. However, if the Protection Group is currently executing a protection run, the current run continues to execute and only future runs of the Protection Group are paused.

To pause future protection run:

1. Navigate to **Data Protection > Protection**.
2. On the **Protection** page, select the Protection Group that you had created for SAP HANA.
3. Click the actions menu next to the Protection Group and select **Pause Future Runs**.

## Resume paused protection runs
{: #resume_paused_protection_runs}

You can resume a paused protection run. When you resume a protection run, if the backup snapshots are expired, then a full backup is triggered.

To resume a paused protection run:

1. Navigate to **Data Protection > Protection**.
2. On the **Protection** page, select the Protection Group that you had paused.
3. Click the actions menu next to the Protection Group and select **Resume**.

## Cancel protection run
{: #cancel_protection_run}

To cancel a recovery run:

1. Navigate to **Data Protection > Protection**.
2. Click the action icon next to the protection run and click **Cancel Run**.

## Delete the protection group
{: #delete_the_protection_group}

You can delete a Protection Group if you:

- Do not want to retain the backups and the local and archived snapshots that are generated by the Protection Group.
- Want to reclaim the storage space utilized by the Protection Group.

{{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Backup and Recovery Platform provides the following ways to delete a Protection Group:

- **Delete Protection Group Only**: Allows you to delete the Protection Group. All the backups generated by the Protection Group are preserved till the snapshots expire.
- **Delete Protection Group and Snapshots**: Allows you to delete the Protection Group and all the local and archived Snapshots generated by the Protection Group.

    After deleting the Protection Group, the reclaimed storage space details are not be displayed immediately. It will take some time to reflect on the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Backup and Recovery.


To delete the Protection Group:

1. Navigate to **Data Protection > Protection**.
2. On the **Protection** page, select the Protection Group that you had created for SAP HANA.
3. Click the actions menu next to the Protection Group and select **Delete**.
4. In the **Delete Protection Group?** dialog box, select any one of the following options:
   - Delete Protection Group Only
   - Delete Protection Group and Snapshots
