---

copyright:
  years: 2024, 2025
lastupdated: "2025-07-30"

keywords: <KEYWORDS>

subcollection: backup-recovery

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Customize indexing
{: #customize_indexing}


Toggle on **Indexing**, click **Add Inclusion** or **Add Exclusion** and enter a directory. Click the **X** to delete a directory from the list.

By default, the root directory (`/`) is included and entire file system is indexed. When a directory is indexed, its sub-directories are also indexed.

You can limit indexing to a specific set of files and directories to minimize the disk space used by the index. For example, you could add two additional rules to the first default rule:

*   include `/`
*   exclude `/var`
*   include `/var/log`

In this example, all files in the `/` root directory are indexed except the files found in the `/var` directory. However, the files in the `/var/log` are indexed because there is an explicit include rule.

Include and Exclude Rules:

*   Use forward slashes (/) for both Windows and Unix as the separator character.
*   Do not specify the drive letter and colon in front of the directory path for Windows.

*   Drive letters are allowed for Windows systems to limit the drives searched for a specified path.

*   If **no drive** is specified then **all** drives for which the path is found are indexed.


 
| Examples | Description |
| --- | --- |
| /C/Users | On Windows, include or exclude Users directory in C:\\Users |
| /Users | On Windows, include or exclude Users directories in all drives, i.e. C:\\Users, D:\\Users. |
| /var/log | On Linux or Unix, include or exclude /var/log directory. |
{: caption="" caption-side="bottom"}

The default directory inclusion/exclusion list are as follows:

*   include /
    
*   exclude /$Recycle.Bin
    
*   exclude /Windows
    
*   exclude /Program Files
    
*   exclude /Program Files (x86)
    
*   exclude /ProgramData
    
*   exclude /System Volume Information
    
*   exclude /Users/\*/AppData
    
*   exclude /Recovery
    
*   exclude /var
    
*   exclude /usr
    
*   exclude /sys
    
*   exclude /proc
    
*   exclude /lib
    
*   exclude /grub
    
*   exclude /grub2
    
*   exclude /opt/splunk
    
*   exclude /splunk
    



## Excluding pseudo filesystems from indexing
{: #excluding_pseudo_filesystems_from_indexing}

In a Linux operating system, specific filesystems, such as /sys, /proc, /dev, /run, /tmp, /dev/pts, and /dev/shm, are dynamically generated by the kernel during system boot. These filesystems are commonly referred to as 'pseudo filesystems' or 'virtual filesystems.' Their contents are unique to the system and temporary, meaning they do not persist beyond system reboots.

Due to their transient nature, {{site.data.keyword.baas_full_notm}} does not recommend indexing these pseudo filesystems. Attempting to index them not only lacks practical utility but may also result in inaccurate or inconsistent indexing outcomes.
